[Police radio chatter]
This is team leader.
We have confirmation on a weapon of
mass destruction inside the building.
Let's go.
[Man shouting in native language]
[Beeping]
Priority one is retrieval
of that package.
Do not damage it or...
or I will be very angry.
- Prepare to breach.
- You can't breach without backup.
You're telling me I need
permission, Hawkins?
Is that what
you're telling me?
Preparing to breach.
Breach in 3, 2...
Freeze! Hands in the air!
[Indistinct shouting]
[Shouting continues]
[Grunts]
[Yelling]
[Shouting in foreign language]
Freeze!
Drop your weapon!
[Beeping]
We surrender.
- Lower your gun, please.
- Put your weapon down.
[Beeping]
Hawkins, I need backup.
Hawkins!
Why is that beeping?
[Tapping]
Man: Nope. That's not it.
Where's the steam vents?
[Echoing] Nazis are always
mad about steam vents.
Whoa!
[Groans]
Ah!
[Speaks German]
Don't mind me. You're
obviously busy.
I'm just here for the
Opal of Samarrah.
The Opal of... what?
Samarrah.
Teutonic knights recovered it from
Jerusalem during the Third Crusade.
[Straining] It was stolen...
by the Nazi occult
division and stored here.
Forgotten after the war,
it is still...
Ha!
Locked in the original
magical safe.
Which makes sense, as it
is dangerous and valuable.
- Uh, dangerous?
- Flynn: And valuable.
It summons demons, but
it doesn't control them.
And that is demonologists
for you...
careless, homicidal.
Another common pair.
- A pair of...
- Adjectives.
They travel in pairs.
Dangerous, valuable. [Ringing]
Careless, homicidal.
Do try to keep up.
[Ringing intensifies]
Ah.
I apparently set off a trap,
which I have about...
Three minutes to disarm
before the opal transforms
every corpse in a 100-mile radius
into flesh-eating zombies,
which seems
unnecessarily dramatic.
[Sharply] Make it stop.
Well, I'm trying.
This is a very complex alphanumeric
code based on Latin Bible verses.
[Beeping continues]
And it would be a lot
easier to concentrate
if someone were to turn off
that beeping nuclear bomb!
[Beeping continues]
[All yell]
[Sneezes]
How do I defuse
this thing?
Of course. The
stations of the cross.
[Chuckles]
For... The bomb?
No, no, no, no. For the death trap.
The bomb is actually much easier.
Is it a black cylinder or
round like a soccer ball?
- Cylinder.
[Gunfire]
Pop open the side casing.
See that blue wire?
Yes!
Don't touch the blue wire.
Aah! Start with "don't."
Start with "don't"!
So, there are eight
stations of the cross.
- 14.
- [Imitates buzzer]
Only eight in the Bible.
Oh, pull out that silver
cube, by the way.
John is the fourth gospel...
condemned to execution.
Book 19, verse 17, Latin
numerals 4-1-9-1-6-1-7.
[Air hissing]
Hey, hey! We're 50%
less likely to die.
Aaaaah!
[Groans]
We are, anyway.
Simon and the women
of Jerusalem.
- Which gospel is that?
- Ooh, Luke.
Gospel of Luke.
Very clever.
Final disarm... 2-2-5-6-6.
Yours or mine?
Improbably, both.
- 2...
- 5...
- 6...
- 6.
[Beeping stops]
[Hissing]
Ahh.
Give me the bomb.
Flynn: 3-1.
3-1?
There are 30 rounds in an AK-47
magazine and one in the chamber.
I heard him fire 31 shots.
I did not hear him reload.
[Gun clicks]
[Baird panting]
[Hissing]
How did you know all that?
I'm the Librarian.
- Ohh, my shoulder!
- Man: Colonel Baird!
Colonel Baird! You good?
- synced and corrected by kategreen -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Resync for WEB-DL by Norther
[Dialing]
Hello. I must speak
to Flynn Carsen.
I must speak with
the Librarian.
Uh, Mr. Carsen is actually in Minneapolis
at a library-sciences seminar.
But we have many other
very qualified librarians.
Flynn Carsen was not
in Minneapolis.
He was in Berlin recovering
the Opal of Samarrah.
It's you, isn't it?
This is Flynn Carsen,
the Librarian.
- How do you know who I am?
- You won't remember me.
I'm outside.
I'm coming in.
What do you mean,
you're right outside?
How do you know
about The Library?
I will explain everything in
greater detail when we meet.
Just tell me where
to meet you.
[Knife plunges]
[Groans]
[British accent]
The crown is mine.
[Knife withdraws]
[Gasps]
[Wind whistling]
[Chatter]
[Chatter intensifies]
Man: Okay, okay. Back it up.
Back it up.
Man: All right,
stand back.
Stand back!
No. No, sir, I do not
need any time off.
My report?
No, I'm not saying
he was a Librarian.
He claimed...
a... a month on leave?
[Laughing] What am I
gonna do for a month?
Yes, sir. Thank you, sir.
[Beep]
[Keys thud]
[Exhales sharply]
Woman: "You have
been selected
to interview for a
prestigious position
with the Metropolitan
Public Library."
Library?
Librarian.
Excuse me.
I was told to find
Charlene.
Oh, for the--
Flynn knows he's not supposed
to be ordering delivery.
This organization is on
a very tight budget,
but no, I am the only one
that cares about the budget.
Take it.
I'm Colonel Eve Baird.
I received... this.
Slipped under my door.
You got the
white envelope.
I'm Charlene.
And you are...
What? Colonel what?
Colonel military?
Colonel police? Air force?
What?
NATO counterterrorism unit.
Please, stop touching me.
Oh, you are the new guardian.
Oh, Flynn's gonna
make a fuss.
He hasn't had a
guardian in 10 years.
But even he can't argue
with the white envelope.
Oh, I have so many
forms for you to sign.
- What's a guardian?
- "What's a guardian?"
Adorable.
All right, Eve Baird.
Got that.
We're going down.
- Very far down.
- Oh, those.
It's really a metaphor,
not real numbers.
Okay, sign here,
here, and here.
Each Librarian has
a guardian...
someone who's trained in
combat, tactics, survival.
Sort of the brawn to
the Librarian's brain.
But... no, no. Much
more than that.
Sort of the, uh, common sense
to their head in the clouds.
Didn't see a lot of threatening
situations in the bookshelves upstairs.
Oh, the Metropolitan
Library upstairs.
That's just the entrance to
the real library downstairs,
where we keep all the
artifacts and magic
too dangerous to be
left out in the world.
[Chuckling] There is
no such thing as...
as...
as magic.
The Library collects ancient knowledge
and ensures that magic... real magic...
doesn't fall into
the wrong hands.
This is...
Th... this is real?
You got the white envelope, an
invitation to join The Library,
which means The Library
needs your expertise.
Welcome to the secret
world, Colonel Baird.
Welcome to The Library.
[Flynn laughing,
swords clanging]
Oh, you're getting
sloppy, 'Cal.
Really. A desvio technique
against a molinello defense?
- I don't think so.
- And meet the Librarian.
[Gasps]
Excalibur! No!
- She's here to help.
- Don't!
Wounds caused by
Excalibur never heal.
They're magic.
'Cal, go on patrol.
I'll meet you.
What are you doing here?
What is she doing here?
Colonel Eve Baird, meet Flynn
Carsen, the Librarian.
We-We've met. That... that...
that's Excalibur?
You call Excalibur "'Cal"?
We're friends, best friends.
Besties, really.
[Clears throat]
[Stutters]
- Why would you send her that?
- I don't send the invitations.
The Library does. The Library
sends the invitations.
I believe Colonel Baird has been
chosen to be your guardian.
[Laughs]
I don't need a guardian.
You hear that?!
I don't need her!
I'm fine!
[Clearing throat]
I think there's been some
sort of misunderstanding.
I'm sorry. Goodbye.
Don't come back.
And don't... tell
me what to do!
Oh, you are perfect!
Say hello to
Judson for me.
Sayonara, arrivederci,
and goodbye.
- I need an answer.
- This is my answer.
Walking away quickly
is not an answer.
How about this?
[Doors slam]
[Scoffs]
[Gasps lightly]
Well, if you won't tell
me what a guardian is,
- point me to one of the
other Librarians. - Charlene!
There are no other Librarians.
There is only ever one Librarian.
And when he dies, another
takes his place.
Good day.
Was he the Librarian
before you?
Judson? No.
He was more than that.
He was, um...
Well, he found me.
He trained me.
He was there for me
when my mother...
he died five years ago.
Sorry.
He's with us in spirit.
- That's nice.
- Uh, no.
Uh, literally in spirit.
Nice reflexes.
She will make a...
a good guardian.
Hey, buy a guy
a drink first.
You're... dead.
It's easier than it looks.
Um... uh, a guardian, f...
for your information,
is the Librarian's
partner and bodyguard.
You... you see, a life of fighting evil
cults and... and monsters, well...
Librarians tend to die...
Often, sometimes
even more than once.
Flynn's survived 10 years, longer...
longer than anyone.
Most of it without
a guardian, a...
alone.
It's... it's changed him.
Ha!
Um, this is...
this is too much.
Magic is real?
A... a building sent
me an envelope?
I... I have a job.
I... I hunt terrorists.
- I took an oath to protect innocent
people, to... to... - To be a guardian.
N-Now you do the same job but in a world
with evils o-only you can face.
There's only one ever guardian
in-in the whole world, Eve Baird,
and The Library thinks
that it should be you.
Do you mind?
I'm trying to solve
a murder here.
[Cracks]
Well, you're doing a
pretty poor job of it.
- Is that the foyer upstairs?
- It's "foy-eh."
- So, you're saying this Dr. Jonas Sheir...
- It's "Shy-air."
professor of
archaeology, five PhDs,
was killed on your doorstep, and
you don't have a single lead?
Oh, I've got
lots of leads.
I've got a plethora of possibilities,
a cornucopia of clues.
I just don't see how
they all connect.
He was trying to show me
this when he was killed.
It has something to
do with this crown.
- What painting is that?
- I don't know.
And that is what
is vexing me.
[Laughs]
I like that.
Haven't used that word in a while.
Vex, vex, vexatious, vex, vex, vex.
He was here. How did he know
about your secret library?
Also vexing.
It's one of the best-kept
secrets in the world.
He was smart. He was
very, very smart, but...
Is it possible you dropped one of your
special glowing envelopes by mistake?
[Chuckles]
No. Yes.
No, not dropped... sent.
He was smart.
He was very, very smart. Was he so
smart that you sent him an envelope?!
- What are you looking for?
- The ledger, the ledger, the ledger.
When the Librarian dies, The Library
doesn't just send out one letter.
It sends out hundreds, hundreds to
qualified replacements all over the world.
And it invites them
in for an interview.
Many are called,
one is chosen.
Precisely.
And Professor Jonas Sheir,
with his five PhDs, would
certainly have been qualified.
We have to sign in.
He said I wouldn't
remember him.
He was here.
He was here and
he signed in
on the day that I was chosen to
be Librarian instead of him.
And now he's dead.
I know this name.
- Dr. Abraham Thomas.
- Mm.
Professor of physics, Doctor of
medicine, speaks four languages.
I met Dr. Thomas at a NATO
conference on bioweapons.
He died in a car
accident last month.
[Sighs]
Far Shariad,
Tehran University.
Plane crash.
Someone's killing
Librarians.
Not all of them, just these
top-ranked top dozen or so.
Dead.
Disappeared...
These three top-ranked candidates
don't pop death notices.
They didn't come
in for interviews.
Ezekiel Jones?
Oh-ho! You got to
be kidding me!
You sent an envelope
to Ezekiel Jones?
Well, I guess he never
came in for an interview.
Maybe they got dropped to the
bottom of the kill list.
They could still be alive.
First contact's address
is in New York.
That's where I'm going.
Thank you for your help.
- I was invited.
- Not by me.
I don't need
your permission.
Flynn: See, I really,
really work better alone.
What Judson described...
a partner...
- it's a sound operational structure.
- See, I've had partners before,
and they've left or they've gone.
They're gone and they're dead.
Or they're dead
and they're gone.
But, if you'll excuse me, right now,
I need to find Cassandra Cillian.
Female, early 20s, collapsed
at school, high fever.
B.P... 140 over 90. Pulse...
100. Temp... 102.5.
Sudden high fever, sore
joints, nausea, and vomiting.
Doctor: Sensitivity to
light and stiff neck.
Meningitis? Push a
wide-spectrum antibiotic.
- Let's get a lumbar tap.
- Yes, Doctor.
Cassandra: Pardon
me, but it's not.
It's not meningitis.
It's psittacosis.
The symptoms of psittacosis and
meningococcus are similar...
for example, the
sensitivity to light...
but you're ignoring
the other factors.
The other factors.
She's wearing a necklace that has parrot
feathers that she picked up off the ground.
She could have
bought that!
- Let's go. We're wasting time.
- No. It's homemade.
The feathers fade.
In commercial feathers,
they're preserved against sunlight
and ultraviolet light, ultraviolet--
- Ultraviolet. 400 nanometers.
- She's right.
914 different species of bird in North
America, and this doesn't match... ooh!
That's an
African-parrot feather.
You heard the janitor. Psittacosis,
parrot fever. Let's go!
Cassandra: Radiation.
Ultraviolet radiation.
Radiation.
Radiation... the collision
of matter and antimatter.
Paul Dirac mathematically
predicted the existence
of positrons with a mass
of 9.110(-31) Kilograms,
protons with a mass of 1.67262178
times negative 27... kilograms.
Neutrons with a mass of...
Cassandra Cillian?
I'm sorry. It'll
stop in a second.
[Chuckles lightly]
I smell peanuts this time.
That's not bad.
Wow. Auditory and sensory hallucinations
linked to memory retrieval.
- You're a synesthete.
- Wow. Yes.
- Hi.
She has a
photographic memory.
Like mine.
Only her brain
is cross-wired.
All five senses are
linked to her memory.
Unbelievable.
I was about to be
super-pissed at you
for assuming I don't know
what a synesthete is,
but I actually don't know
what a synesthete is.
Numbers are colors. Science is musical
notes. When I do math, I smell things.
- Mostly breakfast.
- You're in a lot of danger.
You need to come with us.
- Are you the police?
- No.
I'm the Librarian.
Go get your coat.
Okay, two left, but on
opposite sides of the world.
If somebody's hunting
these people,
you're risking their lives
by not accepting my help.
- You need me.
- Okay.
If I can't get rid of you,
I will make use of you.
So why don't we
both take one.
Here... no, actually,
I will take Mr. Jones.
Good luck to
you out there.
Get ready for anything.
- Define "anything."
- Oh, ninjas, possibly.
Ninjas?
In Oklahoma?
[Alarm beeping]
[Beeping continues]
Aah!
[British accent] Why is that
guard holding a dagger?
He's not a guard. He's
here to kill you.
Ezekiel Jones.
And I'm assuming you're
not here to kill me.
So, tell you what.
Watch my back for 10 minutes,
and I'll cut you in on 10%.
[Chuckles]
You... don't I know you?
Yeah. Cairo Museum. You were that crazy
professor who said the crown jewels
- of Amenhotep were cursed.
- Librarian, not Professor, but yeah.
I stole those jewels right
out of the main exhibit.
Oh, I know. I'm the one who
had to smite the evil mummy.
And now you're going to
steal this jeweled dagger.
Oh. No, no, no. It's mine.
I just left it locked in this display
case on my way to work this morning.
You know how that happens.
Loop the video to avoid
the motion detector is clever.
You're smart enough
to be my sidekick.
We'll call you... "Kid Crime." You
can wear little green shorts.
Burning through the glass in
a room full of infrared sensors...
Less clever.
[Alarm blaring]
[Indistinct shouting]
My escape route's cut off.
Mine's not.
- What do you want, mate?
- Come to New York,
find out why people are
trying to kill you.
[Indistinct shouting]
Sidekick. I'm not your sidekick.
You might be my sidekick.
Let's go! Let's go!
[Country music playing]
Yee-ha!
Woman: Ride 'em, cowgirl!
Whoo-hoo! Yeah!
Aah!
[Applause]
Hi.
Good ridin'.
[Laughs] Okay.
- Working the pipeline Sunday?
- Yes, sir, I am.
I got about an
hour after church,
so I'm gonna run down
there to that junkyard,
see if they got
that '68 gearbox.
- She ain't from around here.
- No, she is not.
She's from somewhere...
Interesting.
Gentlemen.
Time for the master
to go to work.
Idiot.
How's your daddy?
Too drunk to work,
he's too stubborn to die.
- That was quick.
- She's crazy.
She's crazy?
Why, 'cause she wouldn't
leave with you?
Hell, half our high
school must be insane.
She won't even talk to you unless
you an explain that weird tattoo.
Excuse me.
[Sighs]
Hey.
That's a nice tattoo
you got there.
[British accent]
Tell you what, cowboy.
Tell me what it means,
and I'll let you
buy me a drink.
Well, it looks like you got
some foreign words there.
That I-talian?
[Sighs]
"Aestus cruentus
adventus est et
ubique carmen pudicitiae
submersa est."
"And the blood-dimmed
tide is loosed,
and everywhere, the ceremony
of innocence is drowned."
It's Yeats, "the second coming."
It's his poem about the apocalypse.
Tell me... what's a pretty
little thing like you
doing running around with the
end of the world on her arm?
- I'm Lamia.
- Hi.
And you must be
Jacob Stone.
I'm not...
- Whoa, whoa.
- Sorry, no.
[Gun cocks]
Hey, whoa, whoa, whoa!
[Whip cracks]
- Who are these guys?
- Ninjas, possibly?
- In Oklahoma?
- That's what I said.
[Grunting]
Not bad for an amateur.
There ain't nothing amateur about
my bar fights, sweetheart.
Oh, I forgot my hat.
This way, this way.
[Tires squeal]
Oh, man. I'm gonna
miss that hat.
You mind telling me what
that was all about?
You were targeted because
of your expertise.
My expertise? [Chuckles]
Y'all think they're out there
killing oil riggers with ninjas?
- Y'all got another...
- Jacob Stone... I.Q. 190.
Accepted to the Sorbonne
and Cambridge for an arts degree...
turned them both down.
Over the past 20 years,
under a pseudonym,
you've secretly been
writing literature
on European and Native
American art history,
all while working on an oil rig 5 miles
from the town where you grew up...
Y'all.
I don't get why I'm stuck here
with a cowboy and a maid.
You might want to apologize
to the little lady.
Little lady actually not
an improvement over maid.
- Is it just me or is this elevator--
- This thing's going really fast.
Improbably,
terrifyingly fast.
[elevator dings]
[Chuckles]
[Giggles]
You got to be kidding me.
Not kidding. But we don't
have a lot of time.
So, questions... ask them.
- Is that the Spear of Destiny?
- Yes.
Ark of the covenant?
- Wait. What about Bigfoot and Dracula?
Yes and no.
- Yes on Bigfoot.
- So, vampires aren't real?
Vampires are real, but Dracula
is not, because I killed him.
Is this helping?
I don't know that it is.
What?!
Baird: 10 years ago, each
of you received an envelope
inviting you to apply for a position here
in this library, but you never showed.
10 years ago, I was
in a hospital.
Right, with your tumor.
[Inhales sharply]
Um...
Synesthetes rarely have
all five senses involved.
You've got full-on
hallucinations and seizures,
indicative of a frontal-lobe
anomaly, oligodendroglioma.
How big is it?
It's about the
size of a grape.
Which I really wish they hadn't told me,
'cause I used to really like grapes.
- Are you...
- Not yet.
Someday. Sooner than
I'd like, but not yet.
But I lived long enough to
learn that magic exists.
- So, that's pretty cool.
- Very cool.
Stone, why didn't
you show up?
'Cause I already had a
job, family business.
I threw mine out.
[Laughs]
It was obviously
a mistake.
I steal stuff. I've been stealing
stuff since I was a kid.
I'm not gonna get invited
to work at a library.
It is a magic library.
Eh, great. It doesn't
fill my pocket.
I came here to find out
who's trying to kill me.
If magic's real, how come we
don't see it all the time?
Once upon a time,
the world was
filled with magic.
It traveled along a power
network called Ley Lines.
See the Ley Lines,
see the magic.
Over the centuries, the magic was
drained off and stored into artifacts.
Baird: Like Excalibur.
Exactly. He was one
of the most powerful.
He?
The magic continued to fade as cities
were constructed over the Ley Lines
and technology
began to advance.
And, as you can see now, there's
very little magic left.
My job is to make sure that what remains
doesn't fall into the wrong hands.
Like the people who tried
to kill the three of you.
The woman who tried to kill
Stone had a snake tattoo.
Serpent Brotherhood...
an ancient cult bent on bringing
magic back into the world.
I've fought them before.
So these serpent ninja brotherhood fellas
are the ones that are trying to kill us?
The Serpent Brotherhood
use assassins.
[Laughs]
Ninjas?
Who said ninjas? In Oklahoma?
That would be ridiculous.
What did Professor Sheir find that
pushed the Brotherhood to kill him,
- then murder their way down the list?
- Still vexing.
Stone: Does it have anything
to do with this painting?
- "Crown of King Arthur"?
- What?!
[Laughs]
Crown of King Arthur?
You sure?
Yeah.
Crown of King Arthur
was forged by Merlin
to give Arthur control over the magic
that he needed to build Camelot.
So the Brotherhood wants
to bring magic back,
but they need the
crown to control it.
Cannot believe I just said
that with a straight face.
Um, why is bringing
magic back bad?
'Cause magic seems
pretty cool.
Magic is cool, till warring nations drown
each other in tidal waves of blood
or use dragons to burn
cities to the ground.
Magic used well
can be good,
but a world of wild magic is
full of chaos and suffering.
I will begin by exa...
I will begin by examining
the original painting.
Stone: Well, I just
said that I remember
that it was called
"The Crown of King Arthur."
It's a minor piece. Unknown artist.
I don't know where that thing's at.
Ezekiel: Munich Museum
of History and Art.
Oh, I cased it last month for
a heist, memorized the inventory.
There's a flight
to Munich,
Three flights to Munich out of JFK,
one at 6:00, one at 7:15, and 10:45.
Baird: That's why
they were targeted.
You were busy doing
whatever Librarians do.
Saving the world... a lot.
And they... the
other Librarians...
Not Librarians. I'm
the only Librarian.
...were the people most
likely to find the crown.
The Brotherhood was just trying
to wipe out the competition.
- I say we beat them to it.
- Fair enough.
Nobody tries to stab
Ezekiel Jones in the back.
- I've never been to Europe, so...
- Uh, first of all, no.
Second of all, let's not refer
to ourselves in the third person.
Europe is overrated. And I work alone.
So, if you'll excuse me...
- Goodbye.
- Unh-unh.
I got an envelope.
The Library invited me to this party,
and I'm taking them to Munich.
Maybe we'll see you there.
Do try to keep up.
Sorry.
Y-You don't have
to do this alone.
You-You can't.
I'm not alone.
You're here. Charlene's here.
Excalibur's here.
- I-I can't stay forever.
- Well, then, go.
Wherever, whenever.
If you're ready to go, go.
It's-It's not about
when I'm ready.
You were supposed
to live forever.
[Bells tolling]
Ezekiel: So, why are we looking for
a Brit's crown in a German museum?
Well, historically Camelot
fell to the goth invaders,
so they could have taken the crown
back to Ancient Germania, hidden it,
and they left clues in
the cultural artifacts
I think I heard one
night on the radio.
You are one strange cowboy.
Hello.
What can you tell us?
[Majestic music plays]
Guide: Step this way.
Step this way, please.
Ladies and gentlemen,
you'll see to the right...
Flynn.
Flynn!
Lamia: Split up.
Find the painting.
Yes, ma'am.
The Crown of King Arthur.
Artist unknown.
Painted in 1146. Installed as one of
the original pieces in this museum in 1546.
Look at the swords
on the knights.
Roman short swords.
Arthur's wearing the equipment
of a Roman legionnaire.
It's the Roman hypothesis.
The theory is that when
the Roman Empire fell,
the Roman legion stationed
in Britain stayed behind.
Camelot as a city,
armored warriors, legionnaires.
It all fits.
Together: Arthur was a Roman.
Yeah.
There's only one problem.
The painting's a fake.
Hey, Wendt, go over there.
[Grunting]
This color red...
it's a dye.
It's called carmine.
It was discovered
in like the 1500s.
- Painting can't be as early as 1100.
- Also odd... it can't be moved.
This frame's anchored
into the beam.
You'd have to smash down
this wall to move it.
Cassandra: 1011010.
There's a binary code engraved into
the frame that you can't move.
Who cares? That's not... the point
is, is that this is a...
Oh, no, this type of security
is not used in Europe.
- It's the most basic sequence
in all of math. - Okay, okay.
Enough, enough! Shh!
It's like listening to the
inside of my own head...
Except louder.
We have a fake painting.
Why is it a fake?
Because it's meant as
a message, not art.
And it's in a frame
that can't be moved,
which means that the frame's location
in this museum is important.
- And it has a code in it.
- A coordinate code,
leading you... somewhere.
But it requires a key,
- some sort of reference point.
- Like a fixed point in space.
Like a painting that
can't be moved.
The entire museum
is the key.
The dimensions of the floors,
the rooms in the museum
as they relate to where
the painting is.
- That's the key to the code.
- Leading where?
Let's find out.
[Grunting]
There!
Flynn: Latin.
"The crown of the Celts lies 70
leagues to the great woods."
And then there's some
coordinates. This means...
The crown of King
Arthur is real.
And it's buried in
the black forest.
Well, where have you been?
Some very exciting
stuff's going on here.
[Sighs]
Whoa!
We're close.
We can walk from here.
Okay, I think, first, maybe we should
probably just stop and snack and hydrate.
I packed some sandwiches
and some cucumbers
and crackers and some
delicious prosciutto.
People are trying to kill us,
and you brought a picnic.
Hey. We're on
an adventure,
traveling down bad roads
in a crappy truck.
This sure beats
my day job...
Of traveling down bad
roads in a crappy truck.
[Helicopter
blades whirring]
The Serpent Brotherhood.
- They have a helicopter.
- Yeah.
Why don't we have
a helicopter?
Because we have a Charlene, who
approved a budget for one rental car.
Doesn't matter, doesn't matter.
We still have the advantage,
because all the clues for
the crown's location
will be down here
on ground level.
They have a helicopter
and are trained killers.
You and I have very different
definitions of "advantage."
[Cellphone rings]
Sir.
Lamia, centuries of planning depend on
you outrunning one half-mad Librarian,
his part-time bodyguard,
and their amateur sidekicks.
You can understand
my frustration.
We had some issues
at the museum.
Get the crown, kill
whom you must.
But understand...
without the crown,
it will take us 100 years
to remake the world.
With the crown, we can
do it in a single night.
Good job... by the way.
At the museum.
[Chuckles lightly]
If you think about it, we
kind of have the same job.
Running around the world,
finding dangerous objects.
Yes.
It's important work, which is
why I need to stay focused.
I get that.
The whole time I'm home, I'm
just thinking about my next job.
Exactly.
- I don't need friends and
family cluttering up my life. - Yes.
- I get so sick of my friends...
- [Chuckles]
and... and family.
- That's funny.
- Hey, um,
for what it's worth,
you're not nearly as weird
as I thought you were in Berlin.
Well, I think
you are, um...
henge.
Henge.
I'm henge. Cool.
Oh-ho. Oh. Oh. Oh!
A henge!
This is unheard of in
this part of the world.
This is the second clue to the
burial place of the crown.
[Helicopter
blades whirring]
You solve this. I'll go stall them.
I'm your guardian... for now.
You're not my guardian.
Take Ezekiel with you.
Wait, wait, what?
Because I'm expendable?
Well, for ancient astronomical puzzles,
I need a historian, I need a scientist.
- But...
- And you're a little expendable.
They'll be spread out in pairs,
so we have some room to move.
Yeah, I've slipped past police
in 20 different countries.
- I think I know what I'm doing.
- Yeah, I know. I've read your FBI file.
Yeah, criminals do
tend to get those.
No, your other one.
Bloody hell.
Astrological
symbology in Latin.
"When the sun passes through, upon
the fourth day after solstice"...
It's like Stonehenge.
The light only comes
through certain openings,
certain hours,
on certain days.
In fact, there's only one day
a year where you can read it.
And that day...
is not today.
Maybe we can re-create
the sun's path.
Well, over several days, months apart,
I could triangulate each position.
[Straining] I can do that math.
[Sighs]
It's gonna take
me a while.
Cassandra: It won't
take me a while.
Where are we?
In the black forest.
No. She means 84.3 degrees
north, 18.5 degrees east.
At solstice, light
is 52.5 degrees.
Sun's on the ecliptic...
23.5 degrees off the
celestial equator.
Equator, equator.
Solstice degrees add latitude,
then subtract 1 degree a day.
Cassandra?
To find it...
Yes.
48.5 degrees...
Over that rock. How
high is that rock?
- About 9 feet.
- 9 feet. 3 meters.
Cosine... 48.5 degrees.
Times 48.5 degrees.
The shadow ends there.
It's Venus beneath
the harvest moon.
Venus' transgression across
the sky at this latitude.
It's on a 15-degree arc.
This part of the world, the harvest
would be a late-October festival.
October. Stars.
Stars. The stars.
The Orionid meteor shower
from Halley's comet.
- Cassandra?
- No. Don't. I can't stop.
Venus is over this rock
in late October.
Line it up!
"But the two months march past the rise
of spring as the rise of kings."
Vernal equinox.
Sun crosses the equator.
90 degrees.
Latitude plus...
60 degrees.
Rising. It's rising,
rising, rising.
Rising into aphelion, farthest
from the sun in summer.
No!
[Laughs]
That's funny.
What's going on?
It's summer smells.
It's oranges.
Listen, listen, listen to me.
All right? Now I may have a trick.
Listen, listen. All right?
Now, your sensations
need a context.
All right, one place where you
remember smelling the oranges,
a strong memory, something
stronger than a smell.
- It's breakfast.
- Okay.
Breakfast. I'm... 12.
All right. Go right there.
Lock in on that.
My dad's doing the bills, and I balanced
the checkbook in my head.
He's so proud of me.
They're both so
proud of me.
How'd you do that?
It was Bachiani.
Italian artist in the 1800s.
He was a synesthete, and he might have
mentioned that little trick in his memoirs.
I think that was the last
time they were proud of me.
Well, parents ain't
ever easy, Cassie.
Got it!
That's old iron.
I can cut through it
with a welding torch.
I don't suppose you packed
one of those, did you?
Actually, Cassandra did.
In the truck, there's an oxygen
tank in the first-aid kid.
- Would you mind?
- Oh.
They've already moved off. We
need to draw them back here.
Hey, thief, can you
hotwire a helicopter?
Well, as a matter
of fact...
I think I heard something.
This way!
[Helicopter engine starts]
The helicopter!
To sustain a flame, create the thermic
lance, you need a high-energy medium.
Most people would use
metal, like magnesium,
but a high-protein
meat, like prosciutto,
stuffed into a cucumber
works just as well.
Bacon would be
better, but...
Ready?
Cutting tool... both
effective and delicious.
I'll be back.
He just made a cutting torch
out of a picnic lunch.
This is exactly
like my day job.
[Grunting]
Talented.
- You should work for us.
- I like the Librarian.
He's weird, but
it's interesting.
I'll tell him that
when I kill him.
[Grunts]
- Mind if I cut in?
- Ah!
You brought a crowbar
to a sword fight?
I was trained by Excalibur.
I think I'm gonna be okay.
Ezekiel: We do not
want to be here!
Baird: Time to go!
[Helicopter
blades grinding]
Aah!
- Stone, how are we doing?
- I'm done!
[Sizzling]
Congratulations.
You just did something that no
Librarian's been able to do in 1,000 years.
You found the Crown
of King Arthur.
And this is where we run.
Go, go, go, go, go!
- Shotgun! - This job seems
to involve an awful lot of running!
Oh, you get used to it.
Okay, let's go. And go.
Not bad for their first...
- Only...
- time out.
What did you do on
your first time out?
I recovered the
spear of destiny
and stopped an extradimensional pyramid
power from taking over the world.
Now you're just
showing off.
It is a very nice crown.
Well, done and done.
Now, it's time to see about
sending you good people home.
If that's what's
appropriate.
I think Col. Baird is
going to be sticking around.
But if she thinks she's getting the same
benefit package she got in the army--
Charlene.
Judson said that he
was ready to move on.
Oh, well...
I'll just have
a talk with him.
After all, who's in charge?
I am. Not him.
Just because he's dead...
Well, this has been great.
But I gotta get
back to my job.
Your job?
Digging? Like, actually
digging holes?
I have responsibilities.
A man has to have dreams.
But a man's reach should
exceed his grasp, or
what's a heaven for?
That's why I always
reach for the impossible.
You mean that's why you always
reach for other people's stuff.
Hey, it's great you
love digging holes.
I've one talent in this
world, that's stealing.
Not proud it's the only
thing I'm good at,
But I'm damn proud
I'm good at it.
Very noble profession, which I am
excited to see you employ elsewhere.
Flynn?
How did you become
a Librarian?
Uh, the previous
Librarian...
died.
So, if we're the
last candidates,
does one of us become the
Librarian if you die?
[Laughs]
Well, if it's Ezekiel, I'm gonna shoot
him and hope someone better pops up.
[Alarm buzzing]
It's the perimeter alarm.
Installed a new security system
after the last break-in.
Baird: How long till they
get past the elevators?
Well, it's not just a secret door.
It's an actual magical portal.
There's no way that they can breach it,
unless you disable it from the inside.
Somebody let them in?!
Find the crown.
The crown.
Okay, everybody split up.
Find Charlene.
I'm going after the crown.
- I'm with you.
- I got my own backup!
'Cal, come!
Is that a flying sword?
- Excalibur.
- Ezekiel: Of course it is.
Come on, old friend.
Can't argue with that.
- Let's go.
- He's got a flying sword.
Miss Charlene?
Hello?
What are you doing,
you following me?
Well, this place isn't exactly well
mapped out, and I heard your voice--
Whoa.
Who disabled
The Library security?
Hmm? 'cause we've got one guy
that's good at opening locks
and, like you said, well,
you're pretty damn good at it.
What about you, mate?
Stuck in a dead end job,
making little money.
There they are!
Don't worry, Cassandra.
I was hoping
for a rematch.
Well, I brought a
sword this time.
- For what it's worth, I believe you now.
- Why's that?
- 'Cause they're trying to kill you, too.
- That's a comfort.
Let her go, Lamia. She's no threat to you.
She's not even a Librarian.
Let her go, and I'll give you back...
The...
Crown.
Cassandra.
They said they
could save me.
- That only magic can save me.
- They're the Serpent Brotherhood.
Serpents lie.
Aah!
The Library has
been breached.
The Serpent Brotherhood
is everywhere.
No one comes into my library
without my permission.
Do it.
The Li... Library's
gotten very big.
It's, uh... it's going
to take both of us.
I know.
Oh, he'll never
save his receipts.
Lamia: Merlin forged this crown so that
Arthur could control his weapons of power.
And the greatest
of all weapons...
a magic sword...
Excalibur!
'Cal, no!
'Cal, come!
You're powerful,
more than you know...
but not that powerful.
Aah!
Flynn!
Tell Dulaque we
have the key.
We'll open the lock, and magic
will return to the world.
[Gasping]
First...
kill the Librarian.
Man: Yes, ma'am.
[Knives clatter]
- synced and corrected by kategreen -
- www.addic7ed.com -
Resync for WEB-DL by Norther